{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20160\viewh14120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 -- Seminar Paper 1 -- Kurt Medley\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 What are some implications of systems theory and what are some examples of scope as defined by bounded rationality?\
\
	System theory analysts define a structure, such as a community outreach program, a retail business, or a human body as the sum of the elements that work to produce the functionality of the system being analyzed.  Sometimes systems become subsystems to larger systems working to achieve a greater goal.  Humans are systems comprised of organs, which themselves are systems defined to work explicitly to accomplish the tasks of the bodily functionalities.  Humans themselves may be a subsystem to a community organization working to explicitly address the functionality of that system.\
\
	Indeed, this self defining method of conceptualization can be extended ad infinitum.  It may be practical to define boundaries which define a particular system to reduce the complexity and make it manageable.  This reductionist strategy is usually taken to more accurately represent feedback loops that directly effect some stock in a system, to the advantage or disadvantage of the model.  The advantage of such a strategy may be interlaced with the coherence of the particular model; some factors simply aren't beneficial in a representation of how a system may work, thereby complexifying it.  This is disadvantageous to the analyst and may make a model incomprehensible.  The opposite may be true.  The seemingly limitless factors dictating a system's behavior can over-complexify its representation to an analyst.  It may be advantageous to limit the reinforcing feedback loops, balancing loops, or any other external forces acting upon the system that have insignificant effect on the model to help better understand the implications of that model.\
\
	Bounded rationality is defined as "the logic that leads to decisions or actions that make sense within part of a system but are not reasonable within a broader context or as seen as part of the wider system", and its implications may effect a system's functionality.  Instances of this may be conjured up in all aspects of life, where human liver cells are distinguishable from heart cells; these systems, although not mutually exclusive, are subsystems that do not necessary interact with one another directly.  Their relationship with one another represents a sort of "dynamic equilibrium" which represents systems of the human body.  The implications of bounded rationality are sometimes unrealized.  Actors in a system may be unaware of what sorts of effects their actions have on the system they are apart of.  It is important to consider these factors when analyzing a system's nature.  It is often helpful to observe and reflect on subsystems of systems to help differentiate their individual needs.  \
\
	Inherently systems can be elaborately complex and may be extended to the depths of analysts will to analyze.  The trick is to propagate necessary reductionist strategy (or remove unnecessary factors) to analyze the behavior of a complex system.  The scope of a system is defined by the subsystems it is comprised of, and therefore the perception of behavior should be derived from such subsystems.}