{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12180\viewh14120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Kurt Medley\
The Lady Tasting Tea\
Reading Response 2\
\
After all the framework for statistics have been laid, Salsburg discusses making decisions based on probabilities in a philosophic context.  What is the meaning of probability when applied to real life?  Clearly, there are many possibilities for a sample space for a given event.  It's important to discriminate the most appropriate statistical attributes of a model.  Sometimes, however, statistics can play a major role in obfuscating significant outcomes.  If a test is run on the set of all possible permutations of observable data but the data is skewed (intentionally or not) in anyway, a significant misrepresentation of a hypothesis may be inferred.\
\
Within different domains of science are the abstract models used to determine results of calculation.  If these models are unique to each domain, therein lies a problem in generating general "solutions" to outcomes.  If we cannot identify the space of events that generate the probabilities of an event, than one model is more "valid" than another.  I think this is an important point that Salsburg underlines.  Some models might be less useful (or not useful at all) in determining a specific probability of an event while notably useful elsewhere.  This sort of inconsistency can be easily overlooked and can have unforeseeable consequences.  Relating to popular culture, the statistics reviewed by Thomas Herndon showed that the professors who ultimately concluded that economic growth "slows dramatically when a government's debt exceeds 90 percent of a country's annual economic output" were using skewed data.  Herndon said only 15 of the 20 countries in the report were used in the data.  The professors also used one year of data for New Zealand, 1951, when grown was minus 7.6%.  There are obvious discrepancies there.\
\
The idea of predicate logic is a idea that is deeply nested into statistical analysis.  Indeed, we draw "logical" deductions based on information we observe.  This is an archaic notion.  If you play with fire, it may burn you.  It seems life is dictated by these antecedents and consequents.  From obvious examples like the one stated to less realizable examples like "If you invest input x, you'll profit output y".  More dramatic examples come from policy makers in government.  A decision based on input x (policy) may have unforeseeable consequences to output y (population).  "Decisions that are made based on probabilities are not logical decisions" is itself an example of predicate logic statement.  Making logical decisions without any reinforcing statistical analysis may be conversely illogical in itself!}