{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17100\viewh13980\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs30 \cf0 	The Lady Tasting Tea describes in some detail how certain statistical innovations arose from real world problems (e.g., crop rotation, beer mash, fermentation for Guiness, etc.).  Pick one of the several problems in the book, describe it, and then tell the statistical story related to that problem.\
	What was it abut the problem that required or inspired innovation?  If you can address or speculate, how did the particular innovation lead to a more general idea that was more widely applicable?\
\
	As a home-brewer myself, I found Gosset's research on the density of yeast cells within a sample fascinating.  Often fermentation is one of the most important factors in the production of beer.  As the book mentions, too much yeast in a fermenting batch yields a bitter beverage, whereas too little does not give the desired alcoholic percentage and results in a sweeter batch.  Many times, there are random, uncontrollable factors that will effect a beer's ABV.  \
\
	Accounting for the superset of variability in yeast cell health is a daunting task.  There are essentially an unlimited number of precautionary measures one might take in preparation for brewing.  From sanitization fluids used in pots, to the ratio of glucose/fructose to yeast cells in a recipe's unique requirements.  Additionally, different methods of yeast growing can result in stronger/weaker strains of yeast!  Cultivating yeast is itself an art form.  During early times of beer brewing, brewers (who were often monks), devoid of the advent of refrigeration, were forced to brew during specific times of the year.  I can't imagine the set of experiments ran to increase beer quality during those times.  \
\
	Experimentation might be conducted by setting up two or three different brewing stations with different types of sanitizer for each.  One might observe the effects of yeast cell growth based on their reaction to each of the sanitizers.  In 1923, Fisher published a paper that gave a different perspective on control and randomization in an experiment.  He was hired by Rothamsted to examine years worth of leather-bound notebooks full of information gathered on crop variance.  In fact, his revolutionary paper (segmented into parts) was to change the way experimental data was interpreted.  His work concluded that variations in experiments would vastly effect the outcomes of crop growth.  Plots of potato plants may be subject to a different levels of drainage than others, or may be host to other types of parasites, etc.  These different factors may have undermined the experiment's intention, and that was to examine the effect of different fertilizers.  Fisher's experiment involved separating plots into subplots and examining the potato plant's growth simultaneously, rather than separating them by year.  The effects of randomization would eventually normalize.\
	\
	These techniques are now realized and are widely applicable to experiments in which large amounts of data are meant to be compared.  Extraneous data can now be filtered out of an experiment, and a clearer result may be realized.}