{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14300\viewh14220\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b \cf0 Analysis of Scientific Paper\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 How to write a (short) analysis of a scientific paper:\'a0 Think of the paper you write as an \ul analysis aimed at someone who has not necessarily read the paper\ulnone .\'a0 We want to see that YOU understand what the paper is saying (that\'92s why we don\'92t want you to include only critique.\'a0 Also, note that an analysis (critique) need NOT be negative.\'a0 If the paper is stellar, you might be hard pressed to find something negative to say;\'a0 if so, comment on the ways in which the paper is excellent!\
To help you approach the assignment systematically, we\'92d like you to follow the template below (at least until we think you are good enough at this to deviate from the template).\
Our suggested organization:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Your introductory paragraph should be an introduction to your analysis, and include a very brief summary of the paper, including its significance/motivation/context and findings/conclusions/recommendations.\'a0 You might have a brief overview of your own critique \'96 is it generally a good paper?\'a0 what is the best thing about the paper?\'a0 what is the worst?\'a0 Overall, you will be trying to say here whether the author(s) provide adequate evidence to convince you of the findings, whether you think the paper is generally coherent/well-written.\'a0 you could add whether you think the paper is appropriate for the audience (but this is something you might not know much about \'96 yet!\'a0 \'a0Be sure you say what problem the authors are solving.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Very briefly describe the approach, including what prior work had been done and where this work fits.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Describe what work the authors did to create their software or research outcome.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Results and conclusions.\'a0 What are the major results of the work?\'a0 What conclusions were drawn?\'a0 What (management) recommendations (if any) made?\'a0 What future or follow-on work suggested?\'a0 Your analysis of this should be whether the author convinced you of his/her conclusions.\'a0 Were the evidence sufficient?\
{\listtext	\'95	}Your conclusions.\'a0 In your estimation, overall, is this a good or bad paper?\'a0 Would you recommend it to others?\'a0 to whom?\'a0\'a0 Justify your conclusions by focusing on the main (overall) points in your analysis/critique.\'a0 As a summary, you might say what you suggest as future or follow-on work to this.\'a0 (just because there remains work to be done, btw, does not mean the paper was a bad one;\'a0 a paper that suggests lots of additional work might be fabulous!)\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
-- Seminar Response 3; Data Near Hear: Bringing Relevant Data Closer to Scientists\
-- Kurt Medley\
\
	Data Near Hear is a software implementation dedicated to organizing and classifying data repositories in different domains of science.  Its purpose is to increase the effectiveness of search mechanisms within scientific query.  The developers draw from the idea that the use of the internet was once strictly uncategorized, explicitly requested URLs, which limited its users to only a small subset of a total available data pool specific to the user's research.  As data organization techniques improved, pages defined within the internet began to be classified by category in large repositories.  Features like nested URL's, keywords, and "relevance" attributes were established to create the notion of "page rank".  Components of this software are derivable from these concepts.  The software works to create metadata hierarchies for the benefit of scientists working with particular subsets of the field data recorded.\
	Personally, I have used web-based data organizing software as it related to scholarly journals and research papers.  I agree with the authors in that the tools in which we scour, sort, and select data must improve with the inevitable piling of data harvested by people.  Many times, to my dismay, I spend more time processing unrelated search query results than I do actually utilizing the resources relevant to my cause.  \
	Using information retrieval (IR) techniques combined with an interactive query to harvest and consolidate metadata seems like the logical approach to compiling a search engine that scientists would use to analyze results.  The authors worked with various scientists on a scientific cruise in which field researchers gathered information about the environment.  DNH creates dataset summaries to quickly compute relevance scores of many datasets against a scientist's query.  The system eliminates long parsing times by estimating the relevance from a compact dataset summary against the larger power set.  This is necessary when datasets exceed (hundreds of) thousands of instances.  Additionally, hierarchies of scale play a major role in disambiguating information that may be irrelevant to one scientist, but useful to another.  Dataset summaries carry their relationship to contained subsets of a single, larger dataset, in a hierarchy.  In specific domains of science, this is particularly useful.  On the creation and convergence of metadata, the authors suggest inherent metadata is desired.  Externally provided "contextual metadata" is only used to distinguish "quality level" in datasets.  Undoubtedly, machine learning tools would be used to consolidate and classify instances within hierarchies of data.\
	It appears that the implementation of DNH was an overall positive experience within the ocean observatory (domain).  Many different domains of science may benefit from a DNH system.  Practically every realm of science must deal with monumental sets of numeric and nominal data.  The authors express that the DNH system could be augmented and exploited to other ocean observatories easily.  The extension of the system to other domains in science seems to be daunting task.  Teams of people would have to uniformly learn the complexities of the model presented by the authors while simultaneously learning a domain-specific language of another field. (this is always the story of comp sci. majors, huh?)  I see further work with classification algorithms being a necessity, as well as work simplifying the readability in search query results.  I'd recommend this paper to people interested in data mining/classification software.  The notion is a promising one.  As scientists, we are always looking for ways to minimize our search efforts.  The DNH system (and similar strategies) is an integral tool for accomplishing this.  }